(This follows the fact that even session layer is part of Layer 7)

Requests from a given client are always sent to the same target in the target group. 

It is possible to implement stickiness so that the same client is always redirected to the same instance behind the load balancer. 

Why ? Location proximity ? Premium user ? ... Bigger machine ??

--------------------------------

Usually when user's login, their session information is stored in the server, so it makes sense to route the requests of users to the same backend instance. But why is this the case. This is more towards legacy applications that have session data stored in servers. So to be able to sell cloud to these customers, features like sticky sessions make sense. 

-----------------------------------------------



This can work for all three types of load balancers, Classic, Application and Network LB. 

Use case, when we do not want the user to lose session data, which can contain important information. But why not store session data in memory in the browser ? 

This process uses cookies to enable stickiness in the Application Load Balancer. 

#cloud-important 
**Stickiness might bring imbalances to load in the backend EC2 instances in cases a lot of users' traffic is routed to a single or just a few EC2 instances.** 

### Types of cookies

**Application based cookie**
- Custom cookie that can have any schema
	- Generated by the backend EC2 instance
	- Can include custom attributes required by the application
	- Cookie name must be specified for each individual instance in each target group
	- Cannot be named (`AWSALB`, `AWSALBAPP`, `AWSALBTG`)
- Application Cookie
	- Generated by the load balancer
	- Has the name `AWSALBAPP`

**Duration Based Cookie**
- Generated by the LOAD Balancer
- Name is `AWSALB` for ALB and `AWSELB` for CLB

These cookies come to use when we talk about cloud front. 