SSL Certificate allows traffic between your clients and load balancer to be encrypted in transit. (in-flight encryption)

- SSL Refers to Secure Sockets Layer, used to encrypt connections
- TLS refers to Transport Layer Security , which is a newer version of SSL.

Nowadays people still refer to TLS certificates as SSL for the sake of jargon. But TLS is definitely better to use than SSL. 

Attaching a TLS certificate to our load balancer, helps us encrypt traffic to and from the load balancer. 

Certificates have an expiration date and have to be encrypted on a regular basis. 

### SSL - Server Name Indication (SNI)

SNI solves the problem of loading multiple SSL certificates onto one web server ( to serve multiple websites ).

Are certificates required at a server level or at a domain level ? 

https://chat.openai.com/share/4c2b3df9-c114-492d-a8b3-5488eb1ba182

Whether we need to have the SSL certificate just at the domain name level , the load balancer level or within the actual server depends on the use case and how the system is designed. 

Refer to the above conversation for more details and clarity on this. 

Now getting back. Server Name Indication ( SNI ) is a protocol that helps us solve problems of loading multiple certificates onto a single server to serve multiple websites. 

In this situation, when establishing a SSL handshake connection initially, the client needs to mention the hostname of the target server. 

The server will then find the correct certificate, or return the default one. This is part ff the ALB and the NLB and Cloud Front. 

Does not work as part of the CLB. 

Anytime we see Multiple SSL certificates on a Load Balancer - think ALB or NLB. 

This logic abstracted away from developers and built into underlying libraries that handle TLS. 

While modern clients generally support SNI, it is important to ensure that our server infra is configured to correctly handle SNI requests especially if we are hosting multiple TLS secured domains on a single IP address. 


### ELBs and SSL certificates

1. CLB (v1)
	- Only supports one SSL certificate
	- Must use multiple CLB for multiple hostname with multiple SSL certs

2. ALB and NLB (v2)
	- Supports multiple listeners with multiple SSL certs
	- Uses SNI to make it work

